README.md, before:

## Data generator for Amelia platform

[R script](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/DB%20generator.R) to generate datasets to upload to the Amelia Platform, starting from the last school year with all data observable (2022/23), relying on the SchoolDataIT R package.

School Years to be covered are 2015/16, 2017/18, 2018/19, 2020/21, 2021/22, 2022/23.

As soon as data will be available for year 2023/24 relevant data will be loaded as well. At the moment, only part of the DBs are available for 2023/24.

Before submitting data to the Platform it is necessary to provide an adequate description of all fields in each dataset. This is an operation to be performed manually and will require some time. However, click [here](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/Complete%20data/field_track.csv) for metadata 

#### Important: script uses version 0.2.5

This version employs version 0.2.5 of the package, which still has to be shared on CRAN.
So, please make sure to download the experimental version of the package from GitHub, e.g. using the code:
``` r
devtools::install_github("lcef97/SchoolDataIT")
```
If you want to force R not to upgrade the dependencies, use instead:
``` r
devtools::install_github("lcef97/SchoolDataIT", upgrade = "never")
```


## Datasets description

#### School buildings
Database of school infrastructure, as provided by the
[Ministry](https://dati.istruzione.it/opendata/opendata/catalogo/elements1/?area=Edilizia%20Scolastica).
This database regards various material and infrastructural aspects such as the availability of public or private transport or the intended use of physical
spaces. Observations are detailed at the level of physical school buildings. 
The temporal dimension covers school years 2015/16, 2017/18, 2018/19, 2020/21, 2021/22 and 2022/23.
Most variables are Boolean, indicating whether a given feature occurs in a school building or not. 
To keep relatively high data quality standards, the fields with more than 10,000 (2016) or 5,000 (other years) record are filtered out.
School data are aggregated at the LAU/municipality level.
Please, refer to the [DB generating file](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/DB%20generator.R), which explains
in detail how this and other DBs are defined. 

#### Students counts/classroom size
Average classroom size, students counts and classrooms counts for municipalities, covering school years from 2016 to 2024

#### Invalsi municipality data
Municipality-level results of the Invalsi censuary survey.

Commit message:

DB description to be wishfully fed into Amelia

README.md, after:

## Data generator for Amelia platform

[R script](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/DB%20generator.R) to generate datasets to upload to the Amelia Platform, starting from the last school year with all data observable (2022/23), relying on the SchoolDataIT R package.

School Years to be covered are 2015/16, 2017/18, 2018/19, 2020/21, 2021/22, 2022/23.

As soon as data will be available for year 2023/24 relevant data will be loaded as well. At the moment, only part of the DBs are available for 2023/24.

Before submitting data to the Platform it is necessary to provide an adequate description of all fields in each dataset. This is an operation to be performed manually and will require some time. However, click [here](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/Complete%20data/field_track.csv) for metadata 

#### Important: script uses version 0.2.5

This version employs version 0.2.5 of the package, which still has to be shared on CRAN.
So, please make sure to download the experimental version of the package from GitHub, e.g. using the code:
``` r
devtools::install_github("lcef97/SchoolDataIT")
```
If you want to force R not to upgrade the dependencies, use instead:
``` r
devtools::install_github("lcef97/SchoolDataIT", upgrade = "never")
```


## Datasets description

#### School buildings
Database of school infrastructure, as provided by the
[Ministry of Education](https://dati.istruzione.it/opendata/opendata/catalogo/elements1/?area=Edilizia%20Scolastica).
This database regards various material and infrastructural aspects such as the availability of public or private transport or the intended use of physical
spaces. Observations are detailed at the level of physical school buildings. 
The temporal dimension covers school years 2015/16, 2017/18, 2018/19, 2020/21, 2021/22 and 2022/23.
Most variables are Boolean, indicating whether a given feature occurs in a school building or not. 
To keep relatively high data quality standards, the fields with more than 10,000 (2016) or 5,000 (other years) record are filtered out.
School data are aggregated at the LAU/municipality level.
Please, refer to the [DB generating file](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/DB%20generator.R), which shows
in detail how this and other DBs are defined. 

#### Students counts/classroom size
Database of average classroom size, student counts and classroom counts defined at the level of Italian municipalities,
provided by the [Ministry of Education](https://dati.istruzione.it/opendata/opendata/catalogo/elements1/?area=Studenti).
School - level data, as provided by the Minsitry, are aggregated across municipalities, and regard all school grades in primary, middle, and high schools. 
The temporal dimension covers school years 2015/16, 2017/18, 2018/19, 2020/21, 2021/22 and 2022/23.
Please, refer to the [DB generating file](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/DB%20generator.R), which explains
in detail how this and other DBs are defined. 

#### Invalsi municipality data
Municipality-level results of the Invalsi censuary survey. 
Here, we limit ourselves to structuring the Invalsi database as published by the Invalsi institute itseld
into a wide format, in order to have municipalities as observation units. 
NA values mean that Invalsi scores for a given school grade are not published for a given municipality.
This may be happen either if that municipalities has no schools of the relevant order, or if it only has one school of the relevant order; 
in this case though the average Invalsi score exists, the Institute does not publish it for privacy reasons. 
It is possible to refer to the [DB generating file](https://github.com/lcef97/AMELIA_datasets/blob/main/DB%20generator.R), which shows
in detail how this and other DBs are defined.
